---
title: "My Plans for 2023"
author: Siva
images: ["/preview-images/2023-year.webp"]
type: post
draft: false
date: 2023-01-03T04:59:17+05:30
url: /my-plans-for-2023
categories: [Career]
tags: [Career, SpringBoot, Java]
---

First of all, **Wish you a very happy new year and I hope this year will bring more joy and happiness into your lives.**

I would like to share how was 2022 for me and what my plans are for 2023.

<!--more-->


## Highlights of 2022
The year 2022 is very eventful for me and lots of interesting things happened.

### 1. "How to Become a Software Architect" series with in28minutes and JavaBrains
I collaborated with in28minutes Ranga and JavaBrains Koushik and did a "How to Become a Software Architect" series

{{< youtubepl id="PLBBog2r6uMCS0FX6Ym_8NYeTNykUF5970" >}}

### 2. Restarted my YouTube channel with "Spring Boot Tips - 10 part series" 
I started my YouTube channel few years ago and after making a couple of videos I stopped for some reason.
I restarted making videos with my favourite topic "SpringBoot" and made a 10 Part series on "SpringBoot Tips".

{{< youtubepl id="PLuNxlOYbv61jFFX2ARQKnBgkMF6DvEEic" >}}

### 3. Created "Spring Boot + Kubernetes Tutorial" 25-Part Series on YouTube
With the overwhelming positive feedback I got from "SpringBoot Tips" series, 
I made another 25-Part series "Spring Boot + Kubernetes Tutorial" Series demonstrating 
how to build a FullStack SpringBoot + ReactJS application from end-to-end and deploy on Kubernetes.

{{< youtubepl id="PLuNxlOYbv61h66_QlcjCEkVAj6RdeplJJ" >}}

### 4. I joined AtomicJar as Developer Advocate
If you know me via Twitter/SivaLabs Blog etc then you probably know that I like [Testcontainers](https://www.testcontainers.org/) very much for testing.
I got the wonderful opportunity to join [AtomicJar](https://www.atomicjar.com/) as a **Developer Advocate** and work with my favourite technology Testcontainers.

Read [Why I am excited to join AtomicJar](https://www.atomicjar.com/2022/11/why-i-am-excited-to-join-atomicjar/) to know more.

## Plans for 2023
I know plans don't go as planned always, but it gives some direction.
Following are few things I am planning to do in 2023.

### 1. Helping devs to efficiently use Testcontainers
At [AtomicJar](https://www.atomicjar.com/) we, Developer Advocate Team, planned many things that would help developers to learn how to write better tests using [Testcontainers](https://www.testcontainers.org/).
Also, we are focusing on sharing some "Best Practices" on using Testcontainers in various environments (local, CI etc).

### 2. "SpringBoot : The Missing Guide" YouTube Series
After doing **SpringBoot Tips** and **Spring Boot + Kubernetes Tutorial** Series, many people asked me whether I have any course that covers SpringBoot.

I am planning to make a new series to cover:
* The "must know" concepts before starting with SpringBoot
  * Dependency Injection, Front Controller, Template Design Patterns
  * Programming to Interfaces, Loose Coupling
* Building a SpringBoot CRUD application using InMemory Store
* Introducing Spring Data JPA
  * Using Pagination, Projections
  * Flyway DB Migrations
* SpringBoot CRUD with Spring Data JPA
* Building UI using SpringBoot + Thymeleaf
* Introducing Spring Security
* Secure the application using Spring Security
* Testing using Testcontainers
* Converting package structure from package-by-layer to package-by-feature
* Should you adopt Clean/Hexagonal Architecture?
* Decoupling the external service interactions
* Applying Single Responsibility Principle

I hope this video course will be useful for a lot of people.

### 3. Learning something new
It is important to keep updating your skills in IT to be relevant. 
I thought of learning **GoLang** more in-depth. I kinda have a love/hate relationship with Go.
While I am in love with some features of Go, I can't stand it's verbosity, especially it's error handling.
I thought I can get used to it, but no matter how hard I try I am not getting the joyful feeling.
So, **I decided Go is not my cup of tea and decided to move on**.

May be if I have time, I will learn **Rust**.

## Personal Stuff
* I am 39 years old now and what used to be a **"nice to follow"** healthy habits became **"must follow"** now. So I got to change my food habits, reduce screen time and take care of both physical and mental health.
* I feel people on social media are becoming more judgemental. Thanks to some people, I learned my lesson of **"not everyone deserves a reply"**.
* I have already realized that **being passionate about technology** is nice but **being balanced** is more important. In the name of **passion** don't screw up your health.
* **Screw all those personality development and productivity improvement bullshit.** It is absolutely ok to just chill doing nothing. I worked hard so that I can relax when I want to. 
  I won't fall into these **productivity gurus** trap of "every second has to be productive".

## Conclusion
Well, just relax, do stuff as good as you can and enjoy the ride.
